```
title: ReDBox & Mint Single Instance With Block Storage
layout: page
tags: ['intro','heatTemplate']
pageOrder: 2
```
The ReDBox & Mint Single Instance with Block Storage template extends the functionality of the [ReDBox & Mint Single Instance](/heattemplates/ReDBox-Mint-SingleInstance) by adding block (Volume) storage. It will install the following applications:
1. ReDBox
2. Mint
3. ReDBox Administration interface

on a NeCTAR virtual machine profile of your choosing. This template is ideal for long running ReDBox instances as it includes a more robust method of storage. If you'd like to start up an instance for short term or for testing purposes then the [ReDBox Mint - Single Instance](/heattemplates/ReDBox-Mint-SingleInstance) may be more suitable for you. For more information on the different storage options available in NecTAR visit the NeCTAR [website](https://support.rc.nectar.org.au/docs/storage).

###[Download link](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redbox-mint-contrib/nectar-heat-templates/master/redbox-mint/ReDBox-Mint-SingleInstance-With-Block-Storage.yaml)

##Form fields description
As well as the [standard fields generated by NeCTAR stacks](https://support.rc.nectar.org.au/docs/heat/dashboard), the template provides the following fields to customise your instance:

###InstanceSize
This field is used to specify the size of the NecTAR instance ReDBox will run on. The dropdown provides a list of the available profiles in NeCTAR. For more info on these profiles visit the [NeCTAR website](https://support.rc.nectar.org.au/docs/resources-available). ReDBox and Mint will run on any of the available NeCTAR profiles, however for performance m1.medium is recommended as a minimum.

###InstanceSize
This field is used to specify the size of the NecTAR instance ReDBox will run on. The dropdown provides a list of the available profiles in NeCTAR. For more info on these profiles visit the [NeCTAR website](https://support.rc.nectar.org.au/docs/resources-available). ReDBox and Mint will run on any of the available NeCTAR profiles, however for performance m1.medium is recommended as a minimum.

###ImageName
List of NeCTAR images supported for launching on the instance. Currently only [NeCTAR CentOS 6.5 x86_64](https://wiki.rc.nectar.org.au/wiki/Image_Catalog) but other images may be supported in the future.

###AvailabilityZone
The availability zone is the NeCTAR zone in which the VM will run. Generally, the zone to choose is the one closest to your location.

###VolumeSize
The size of the volume (in gigabytes GB) to be used with the instance. 10GB is the minimum recommended volume size however for a production instance you should consider using one of the larger options.

###InstallType
The ReDBox Installation type. There are 2 options in the dropdown:
* basic - installs Mint configured to use the older built-in harvester.
* harvester-complete (default value) - installs the new stand-alone harvester configured to harvest Mint records.

The harvester-complete is recommended as it is configured to work with the ReDBox Administration interface to allow uploading of data source CSVs. If you wish to use the basic installation type, you will need to manually scp files onto the server and execute commands to harvest.

###PostInstallCmd
The Post Install Command is a comma delimited list of bash commands to run after ReDBox is installed. It is intended for power users and can be left blank in most cases.

###CidrInstitution
Potentially you may want to restrict access to your ReDBox and Mint instance so that it's only available to your institution. This field allows you to enter a [Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing) value to the NeCTAR firewall to restrict access. If no value is supplied, the instance will be available from all IP addresses (CIDR 0.0.0.0/0).

###CidrNLA
This is the CIDR value to allow access by the National Library of Australia (NLA) TROVE harvester. By default this is set to 0.0.0.0/0 so as if no value is set for CidrInstitution, access isn't restricted. If you are setting a value for CidrInstitution, input 192.102.239.0/24 to allow access by NLA.
